---
layout: post
title: Stoppit
image: Internet_addiction.jpg
imagesource: Sam Wolff from Phoenix, USA (we swarm) [<a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0">CC-BY-SA-2.0</a>], <a href="http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File%3AInternet_addiction.jpg">via Wikimedia Commons</a>
---

My name is Artur Upton Renault, and I am an Internet addict.

At first I thought this wasn't an issue, that my levels of Internet use were normal, and pretty much the same as most people in my generation.

But I've spent the past week at home thinking about this a little bit, and I've realized it isn't like that. I have a problem.

My first mistake was that the benchmark I was using was my perception of other people's Internet use. This was erroneous because it is completely subjective; one person may be totally fine with ten minutes of daily Internet use, while another will use it for half a day and be completely satisfied. Furthermore, my perception was nothing but guess; I really have no idea how long any given spends on the Internet, except myself.

And I spend *a lot* of time on the Internet, especially on break. When I wake up, I'll pick up my phone and spend over an hour in bed just surfing before I work up the willpower to get up and do something with my day. After I shower and get ready, I'll turn on my laptop and revisit the same websites I was just looking at on my phone, rereading the same things, and will waste another hour doing this. Sometimes I'll spend the whole day doing this, until I'm in bed, and I'll spend another couple of hours browsing the Internet before I fall asleep.

This doesn't just stop me from doing productive things. I've noticed that even when I decide to do something fun, like play PlayStation or go out, I'll get stuck in front of my computer and stay there until it's too late to do anything else, and I just have to go to sleep.

And this is the measurement I'm using to determine I have a problem: it's getting in the way of me doing what I want to do: of reading, running, coding, and bettering myself.

It's depressing. And I want it to stop.

The first step to solving a problem is admitting I have one, so here I am, admitting it.

The second step is taking small actions to solve my problem. And to do that, I've isolated what I believe is the biggest root of my addiction: Reddit.

Don't get me wrong, Reddit is a great website. It has the potential people from all over the world to communicate and share beautiful things, to form communities based on mutual interest and develop an interesting discourse that enlightens everyone involved. The problem is, at least in the way I was using it, it wasn't reaching that potential. With rare exceptions, like /r/soccer, /r/TrueReddit, and /r/programming, no subreddits were adding anything of value to my life. It was mostly funny, silly, and useless pictures or short jokes. I wouldn't bother reading the longer, actually interesting articles. But I would go back to memorable comments and stories, reread them, and laugh at them for the 50th time like an idiot. I would keep going down the front page until I reached page 20 and no more posts would load, then would go back to the top and start all over again. I would spend hours on end doing this, and it wasn't enjoyable. I just couldn't stop. It was consuming my life.

So I blocked it yesterday, and today the Internet feels much better. Facebook still has some of those silly, one-second bursts of entertainment, but they really don't draw me as much. For interesting articles, I'm forced to go directly to the source, reading good websites like *Reuters*, *The Verge*, and *VICE* (I'm looking for more suggestions, please!) and reading longer, more interesting articles that actually make me think.

It's a lot more stimulating, and at the same time I feel like I am much more capable of getting off the computer whenever I want.

Again, I don't think Reddit is intrinsically bad; I'm just incapable of using it. There are definitely many things I will miss about it.

It's just been a day, but I feel like it's a step in the right direction. I'm still pretty addicted, but at least I'm getting more out of it now. Maybe the solution to my problem isn't getting off the Internet, but knowing how to use it. But I'm taking this one step at a time.

And yes, I do recognize the irony of posting this on my blog. I chuckled a little. 